---
title: "Ambush!"
date: 2022-01-11
published: 2022-01-11
categories: boardgames
tags: [overview, war-games, boardgames, reviews]
is_post: true
no_image: false
excerpt: The first post in my series of board game overviews, this time I cover Ambush!
---

## Ambush!

Today I’m talking about a game called Ambush! published by Victory Games in 1983. 
I’m gonna give a brief overview then go through some gameplay after; this is a text version of the video that I recorded [here](https://ambush.unexplored.games).

Ambush! is a solo WW2 strategy game where you command a squad of US soldiers through 8 different missions which you can link together into a longer campaign. Each mission has different victory conditions and mission-specific rules that change the behavior of the map, limit the equipment you can bring or variations keeping the scenario unique and interesting.

<Map image>
As you move around the board you’ll cross-reference the hex locations with this nifty <word> which may give you paragraphs to look up in this paragraph book. The events in the book include ambushes by german soldiers, US reinforcements, sniper fire and sometimes paragraphs that just read “it was just the wind”
<Zoom in on this paragraph; obscure the paragraph number in post>
Which adds to the tense feeling of movement.

Because the game is dictated by the combination of your movement choices and some randomness introduced by the two d10s, the stories that come out of the game can be really cool.

For example during one mission I was fighting what seemed like an never-ending string of Germans, during which half my team became incapacitated and one solider even got killed when finally a US solider came to me with a message saying the Germans are invading and that I should abandon my post, changing the end-of-scenario rules.

This soldier came via a random event and if he came into the game during my never-ending firefight that mission would have felt very different, more of an escape than a fight to the death.

<Shots of tables>
Explain combat and movement

<Shot of cards and open paragraph book>
That brings me to the issue of replayability. There are 8 missions in this game, and I’ve only done 4 of them, but they seem to take around 3 hours+ to play. BUT because of the randomness and all these cards I think that, if I were to play the campaign again, there’s no way I’d remember all the various gotchas or which hex triggers a specific event. The limited number of maps (2) contribute to that as well; I’m not sure if I’d remember if, for instance, hex Z-49 triggers sniper fire in mission 1 or was that mission 6?

<Setup mission; add chapter here>
I really really enjoy this game and if you see it around I suggest you pick it up, but if you’re still curious about it, I’m gonna run through a mock mission to show how some of the mechanics work; I’ll be skipping over some setup so don’t take this as a rules-explanation but rather an overview of how some of the combat mechanics work.
